---
categories: "personal"

---

<p>I’m turning 26 today. That seems strange, I can’t really remember turning 20, let alone the intermediary years and milestones.</p>
<p>It’s strange, I have been so concerned with living up to expectations, I haven’t taken the time to realize where and from whom those expectations come from.<br>
The expectations that have humourlessly ruled me for a good long while have all been built by me. Me and myself and I. Just me, no-one else. It’d be way easier to get to terms with them if I had someone else to blame, but I can’t really do that. It’s all been me.</p>
<p>I’m really prone to making up a rule and then going crazy over not being able to fulfill the rule. That I just made up. Arbitrarily. That’s not really a thing that a healthy person does, so I’m finally coming to terms with the fact that I need to engage in some self-care.</p>
<p>A good example of the rule thing is my disposition toward my thesis.</p>
<p>I started working on my thesis at my job at sensoftia. I worked at creating the MVP mobile version of their remote conferencing app, and that is also the theme of my thesis. I started working on the report back then as well, but it kind of fell by the wayside as more work became more interesting and pertinent.</p>
<blockquote>
<p>And then I created a rule. I have to make it good. It has to be the best fucking thesis in the history of theses.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>The rule was pointless, born out of hubris and misplaces self-esteem. It enabled me to push off starting on the reporting work, because it had to be perfect, and I wasn’t perfect at writing yet. I had to become perfect at that.</p>
<p>So I kept working, and pushing off the point when I’d get started on the thesis report. The app was finished, I worked on other projects and was ultimately let go during some downsizing. It was fall, so I tried to get on track with my schoolwork, which I’d been neglecting for a year. I failed miserably, because I wanted to do it my way. Another pointless rule on top of pointless, self-inflicted handicaps.  The dark part of the year got to me, like every year before it, and I spent a solid 3 months wallowing in self-pity over not having already done everything I had on my plate, and doing nothing to better the situation.</p>
<p>I february I started working on the school thing. I’d been burned by trying to get a new programming job, so I started focusing on getting the schoolwork done. Constant worry drove me to get a small part of the stuff done, but I hit a wall in april and fell back into the depression.</p>
<p>It’s may now. I feel better than I have felt in years, it seems, but I can’t really trust that feeling since it’s not something I could gauge very accurately.</p>
<p>I’m a dumb asshole. I keep thinking I’m getting better, but my second thoughts betray that, reveal it to be just another crutch that keeps me from facing the reality of the situation. My vague attempts at introspection are always interrupted by the part of me that will spit-polish a turd, and that is hindering my sense of humour and ability to self-deprecate. It might be stemming from the fact that I don’t really have a clear picture of myself, even for the purposes of playful and disarming self-deprecation.</p>
<p>So I’ll need to form an idea about who I am, and then create a caricature of that. The solid, real idea will be the basis of my self-esteem, and the caricature will be useful for politics.</p>
<p>Politics requires caricatures. The faces we make, the sounds we produce, our body language and mannerisms are tools for politics. Becoming successful as a character, someone people know, is all about being very recognisable, and then breaking form.</p>
<p>For that purpose, a central part of this self-fixing effort has to be making myself the butt of all of my jokes. I need to be able to laugh at myself.</p>
<p>It’s just kind of hard, since I find myself so bloody boring.</p>
<p>But do I really? If I actually found myself boring, wouldn’t I want to get out there and meet less boring humans? Instead of sitting at home and masturbating and reading and writing. (mostly masturbating, though.)<br>
Since it’s likely that I actually find myself really interesting, I have to take that into account when building a representative picture of myself.</p>
<p>So,<br>
{: .mdl-data-table .mdl-js-data-table}</p>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>features:</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>finds self utterly charming, always says self is dull and boring</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>creates silly rules for self, follows slavishly and with much griping</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>dislikes most people, secretly likes most people</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>enjoys machines, especially mechanics, just now starting to do something about it</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>hard time finding motivation, never really tries more than once</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><em>very very very</em> B-type personality, nothing else there</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>hard time saying what I want, want a lot of things and get pissy not getting them</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>unable to demand anything, constantly demanding for things without expressing it clearly</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>meek to the point of character flaw, put on a face for unfamiliar people that is often rude</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table><p>There’s definitely something here. Even material for a caricature, I’m almost certain.</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Written with <a href="https://stackedit.io/">StackEdit</a>.</p>
</blockquote>

